Chapter on maintaining consistency in The Turing Way chapters (#1459)
alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way: book/website/community-handbook/consistency/consistency-structure.md

(ch-consistency-structure)=
# Structure

Structure refers to how _The Turing Way_ is organised.
A good structural framework ensures that _The Turing Way's_ content is presented in an orderly manner.

(ch-consistency-structure-hr)=
## Hard Requirements

The hard checks that deal with _The Turing Way's_ structure include: 

(ch-consistency-structure-hr-emptyfiles)=

> ### Check 1: Do not add any empty files in the `_toc.yml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Check 1: Do not add empty files in the `_toc.yml`
```

The `_toc.yml` file is where _The Turing Way's_ table of contents (ToC) lives.

> Some files referenced in the ToC are empty, and their inclusion means that readers are able to navigate to them while reading _The Turing Way_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some files referenced in the ToC are empty, and their inclusion means that readers are able to navigate to an empty (sub)chapter while reading _The Turing Way_.
```

```{figure} ../../figures/empty_toc_file.png
---
name: empty_toc_file
alt: An empty file that was included in the Turing Way's Table of Contents. Readers can still navigate to empty files when they are included in the table of contents.
---
Empty files included Turing Way's Table of Contents can still be accessed by readers.
```

A general suggestion is to remove references to such files from the ToC and raise an issue in _The Turing Way_ Github [repo](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way) for content to be written for those files. 
When the content is written, the files can then be added to the ToC.

For example, [this issue](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/issues/1391) curates a list of empty and incomplete files currently in _The Turing Way_, and 
[this PR](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/pull/1448) writes content for the `Data Licences` subchapter shown in the {ref}`image <empty_toc_file>`.

(ch-consistency-structure-hr-structure)=
### Check 2: Ensure chapters follow a consistent structure

_The Turing Way_ is made up of five guides that contain several chapters and subchapters. 

> However, these chapters do not follow a uniform structure, taking away from the reader's experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, these chapters do not follow a uniform structure, and this takes away from the reader's experience.
```

```{figure} ../../figures/recommended_chapter_structure.png
---
name: recommended_chapter_structure
alt: The recommended structure for chapters in The Turing Way. Chapters should have a landing page with a sections for prerequisites, summary, and why the chapter is useful. Chapters should also have a checklist and a resources subchapter in addition to the rest of the chapter content.
---
Recommended structure for chapters in The Turing Way.
```

> The recommended structure for chapters is shown in the {ref}`<recommended_chapter_structure>`.

Reviewer: I would take this paragraph to already outline the structure briefly, and then end the paragraph with the link to more detailed information.
```suggestion
```

> The recommended structure for chapters is shown in the {ref}`<recommended_chapter_structure>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The recommended structure for chapters includes:
```

> The landing page of the chapter should include information about any prerequisites required to understand the chapter, a summary of the chapter's content, and an explanation of why the chapter is useful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The **landing page** for the chapter should include information about any prerequisites required to understand the chapter, a summary of the chapter's content, and an explanation of why the chapter is useful.
```

Reviewer: I'm converting the structural recommendations to a bulleted list. I'm wondering if there could be a second level of bullet points for prerequisites/summary/usefulness, or is it a bit much?

> While a chapter can contain as many or as little subchapters as necessary, it should also contain a separate checklist and resources subchapter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Subchapters:** A chapter can contain any number of subchapters or none at all. However, please note the next requirement about the checklist and resources subchapters.
```

Reviewer: Not sure if this makes it clearer, or more confusing (in that it's redundant information).

> The checklist subchapter itemises action points for the reader to take based on the concepts introduced in the chapter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Checklist subchapter:** The checklist subchapter itemizes action points for the reader to take based on the concepts introduced in the chapter.
```

Reviewer: I forgot how we could do a second level of bullet points in Markdown. But the resources and checklist subchapter points could basically be bullets underneath the 'subchapters' point.

> The resources subchapter, on the other hand, points the reader to other sources where they can learn more about the concepts discussed in the chapter and what other related topics to explore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Resources subchapter:** The resources subchapter points the reader to other sources where they can learn more about the concepts discussed in the chapter, as well as related topics to explore.
```

Reviewer: Same comment as the previous one about second level of bullets.

> 

Reviewer: More information about these recommendations can be found in {ref}`<recommended_chapter_structure>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More information about these recommendations can be found in {ref}<recommended_chapter_structure>.
```
